Previously on Power...
Where's Dad?
You the man of the house.
a'ight?
Hold it down.
- A'ight.
- I love you.
Nothing's the same
with him anymore.
Everything's just different.
He's different.
I'm worried about you. 'Riq.
There was this cop at school
looking for you today.
Are you in trouble?
You should tell Mom.
Listen to me.
You cannot tell anyone.
- You can't.
- I won't tell.
I swear.
I know who you are. Ray Ray.
You need to leave
my brother alone.
Raina was my better half.
When I-when I find myself
in a place of trouble.
I think to myself...
"What would Raina do?"
Well. here we are.
This is Choate.
There's something
I gotta say to you.
You deserve the truth.
We thought we were
protecting you.
but all we did
was teach you how to lie.
I told her I-I would handle it.
but I watched her die.
- I miss her so much.
- I miss her too.
What happened to your sister?
You were twins?
Yeah. and half of me is gone.
- I feel so alone.
- You're not alone.
I'm here.
He's expelled.
effective immediately.
That's all it is.
It's just baby aspirin.
Do they think
they're buying baby aspirin?
Ma. what happened to your arm?
Ghost happened to my arm.
He laid hands on me.
And I would kill Ghost
to protect you. 'Riq.
I should be the one
protecting you!
And I will.
I promise you that. Ma.
no matter what.
- A'ight.
- Don't get it twisted.
You might've given me life.
But you were never
my fucking father.
He said he would kill you?
He didn't have to say it. Ma.
I'm gonna stop him.
If you don't want this.
'Riq. you gotta tell me now.
Ma. I just don't want you
to go to jail.
I won't.
What if she gets caught?
Man. she ain't gonna
get caught; she too smart.
There's only one way to be sure.
It was always gonna go this way.
Just gotta step into it.
Tariq. if you do this shit.
you can never go back.
I'd do anything to go back...
to go back to how it was
before you left us for Angela.
- Come on!
- Wait.
We take care
of each other. right?
Right.
- I saw you at Truth.
- Wasn't me.
I don't want to have to say
I saw you
if you're not the one
that did it.
- Dre did it. right?
- Right. it was Coleman.
Good.
The entire portfolio
goes to your children.
Ma. don't worry about it. okay?
I'll take care of you.
You don't inherit
until you complete
a four-year degree
from a university.
You do want Truth back. right?
How much? I'll pay asking.
You get him into
your alma mater. Stansfield.
and my son's trust
will give you Truth.
What do you want now?
Tasha Green St. Patrick.
you're under arrest
for the murder
of James St. Patrick.
No. she didn't do it.
Mom. tell her
you didn't do this!
Tell her what really happened!
Tariq. go to school!
No.
Live your life.
First-degree murder.
You don't look like
you could pull that off.
Nails too nice for that.
My husband beat me up. a'ight?
You're not a battered woman.
I've seen a million girls
with that same story
here and at Bedford Hills.
If they didn't find you
crying on the ground
next to the body.
that's bullshit.
Maybe you could sell
that shit to the jury
but not to me.
She's headed to arraignment.
Good luck.
Tasha Green St. Patrick.
If the locals don't keep you.
I'll see
your guilty ass tonight.
Listen. you need to come
and stay with me right now.
Grandma. I have to stay
at Stansfield.
It's what Ma wants.
No. your mother doesn't know
what's best for you right now.
She has enough to worry about.
'Riq. please come home with us.
I mean. I would think
that you would want family
at a time like this.
You don't understand. Grandma.
I do. but...
Mrs. Green.
I'm Tameika Washington.
Tasha's attorney.
- Nice to meet you.
- You too.
This must be Yasmine.
- And you're Tariq.
- Yeah. so what happens today?
Does she get bail?
I brought money.
One step at a time. Tariq.
We're gonna argue
a justification defense.
That means Tasha
says she did it.
What? No!
She has to say she killed James
but she did it in self-defense.
It's her best chance
at less jail time
or maybe none at all.
Wait. so she has to say
she did it in court?
Yes. and your mother
is very sure
that's what she wants to do.
Wait. no. I-I need
to speak to her first.
Her mind's made up.
Tariq. in order to get
the judge to give bail.
I need to say some pretty ugly
things about your father.
Are you gonna be okay with that?
Go ahead.
Okay.
Tasha St. Patrick had a plan.
and she executed it.
She duped her lover.
Quinton Wallace.
into driving her
to the scene of the crime.
She waited until her husband
turned off all the cameras
at Truth.
and she calmly
pulled the trigger.
with her unwitting
getaway driver waiting outside.
She showed premeditation
with malice aforethought.
She even had a scapegoat
all lined up
in case she got caught.
She committed
first-degree murder.
and she deserves no bail.
She thought he was gonna
kill her. Your Honor.
Can the defense prove
that James St. Patrick
made such a threat?
We can show the bruises
on her arm
from the conversation they had
about it the night before.
Your Honor.
Ms. Washington can't argue
that the defendant thought
she was in imminent danger
- 24 hours later.
- She's right. Ms. Washington.
Your Honor.
James St. Patrick was a monster
of untold proportion.
The Democratic candidate
for lieutenant governor
was a monster?
The Democrats
didn't do their homework
on James St. Patrick.
He was suspected of
and investigated for
multiple homicides.
numerous narcotics charges.
and violations of laws
both state and federal.
James St. Patrick was cleared
of the only charge
ever brought against him.
Your Honor. if we go to trial.
I will show that my client
was the long-suffering wife
of a smiling sociopath.
a man as vicious
as he was successful.
as capable of slitting a throat
as he was of making a speech.
My client is not a flight risk.
She has children.
I ask you. Your Honor.
what kind of a stand
against battered women
would you like to make?
Hmm.
Ms. Sullivan. it sounds like
you need to call your boss
before you go too far
with this prosecution.
Thank you. Your Honor.
Oh. don't thank me yet.
Your client is facing
murder one.
I can't just let her go home.
Tasha Green St. Patrick.
you are remanded to custody.
No bail.
No bail!
Is Mommy coming home?
Not yet. Yas.
This is Jenny Sullivan.
I need to speak to...
Take her to the attorney
conference room.
I think we have a meeting.
How was your phone call
with the DA?
I'm here. aren't I?
We want
criminally negligent homicide.
E felony. probation.
She showed up with a gun.
and she pulled the trigger.
Tameika.
What the hell is negligent
about that?
Man two.
I'll recommend five years.
He killed all those people?
And more
we couldn't nail him for.
Hell. we couldn't nail him
for these; he was that good.
My client knew she'd be just
another one of these photos.
either herself or her children.
You didn't prove any
of this; it's not admissible.
My client's
state of mind is at issue.
not the evidence.
Tasha. do you think James
committed these murders?
I know I would have been next.
I put these photos in
front of a jury. it's a walk.
Shit. they'd throw her
a goddamn parade.
You might not get them in...
Fair warning.
But I sure will try.
and once the entire
Democratic Party is humiliated.
let's see where you end up...
Fair warning.
Why. Tariq.
I had almost given up hope.
Has your watch stopped?
Young African Americans
have a responsibility
to be prompt. young man.
We must subvert expectations
whenever possible.
Yes. ma'am. I apologize.
I had a family emergency.
Yes. well. I suppose you have
the family emergency
these days. don't you?
He really is
remarkably resilient.
wouldn't you say. Ida?
Tariq. I was surprised
when our esteemed alumnus here
reached out on your behalf
and suggested that you
wanted to matriculate
so soon after
your father's passing.
Are you really ready for the
academic rigors of Stansfield?
Yes. ma'am. I believe so.
In fact. I think that school
will help distract me
from the things
I'd rather not think about.
I think Stansfield
will be a great refuge
from the outside world for me.
Well. I certainly
understand that. young man.
I'm glad to hear
you feel prepared.
because unfortunately.
in exchange for your admission
here at Stansfield.
we've had to add a little extra
to your plate.
We'd like you to tutor
one of our students.
a basketball player.
Do you like basketball?
Of course he likes basketball.
- Uh. may I?
- Please.
What's the student's name.
ma'am?
Ezekiel Cross.
Have you heard of him?
- Wonderful jump shot.
- No. I haven't.
Well. we've actually
arranged for him
to be your roommate
in the dormitory.
You move tomorrow.
And in which subject will I
be tutoring Ezekiel. ma'am?
All of them.
Zeke doesn't play.
you don't stay.
Now you need to go
meet your advisor.
You lost?
Oh. Damn. was it that obvious?
Yeah. a little bit.
What building
are you looking for?
Um. University Hall.
I'm headed that way.
What year are you?
Freshman.
Wait. are you gonna take
Canonical Studies?
I'm not sure.
I'm supposed to be meeting
someone named Caridad Milgram.
She's my
"minority student counselor."
Yeah. she's mine too.
Most of the freshmen have her.
But Professor Milgram
also teaches Canonical Studies.
It'd be nice to have another
Black kid in there with us.
There's only. like. four now.
What do you mean "like. four"?
Everyone who's Black
isn't Black. you know?
Really willing to own it.
Speaks up when
the white kid oversteps.
Right now. you got me.
this one girl BruShaundria.
and this other guy Khalid.
And then there's Richard.
It's like he was
dipped in chocolate
but the inside doesn't match.
I'm guessing you're not too shy
about your opinion. huh?
What would be the point of that?
University Hall is the next
building to your right.
You'll get used to this place
pretty fast. I promise.
See you around.
Hey. wait. What's your name?
I'm Tariq.
Lauren.
I hope to see you in class.
Oh. fuck.
It can be hard
for students of color at first
at Stansfield.
I mean. my own mother
struggled here
as a young Black woman
in the late '70s.
And as an interracial couple.
well.
my parents were still
an anomaly.
But times have changed. and...
well. the school's
now invested in our concerns.
You know. I don't understand
why the dean wanted me
to come see you.
I've been going to all-white
schools my whole life.
Well. I'm sure she thought
your personal circumstances
required extra support.
Um. "my personal circumstances"?
Your parents. Tariq.
Your father's unfortunate death.
your mother's arrest.
You can talk to me...
about anything.
How are you feeling?
Look. my parents. I think.
would want me to concentrate
on my schoolwork.
And I heard you teach something
called Canonical Studies.
and I read in the course
catalog that in that class.
the students
get to graduate early.
Well. the level of difficulty
for Canonical Studies
is very high. Tariq.
Course credit is double that
of a normal freshman workload.
Students can elect to graduate
after their third year.
but most choose not to do so.
You just got here.
Why are you
in such a hurry to leave?
I have to help my grandmother
with my baby sister.
I have to help my family.
Canonical Studies requires
a verbal entrance exam...
...on this book.
The Stranger by Camus.
Okay. so when can I
take the test?
Professor Milgram.
I'm not asking
for any special treatment.
I'm asking not to lose
an opportunity.
The DA has agreed
to four years' probation
for criminally negligent
homicide
with all the other charges
included.
No jail time?
No jail time.
Somebody wants your husband's
secret life to stay a secret.
You allocute tomorrow morning
accurately and specifically.
and you go home
tomorrow afternoon.
How can I ever thank you?
Thank your husband's ambition.
If he hadn't gotten in bed
with politicians.
we'd be stuck
with that man two charge.
There is one last thing with
Quinton Wallace's testimony.
He said you rushed him
out the door.
You were on a schedule.
You arrived
at the precise moment
where James would be alone...
No guests. no security detail.
How did you know?
What does that matter?
If your story isn't airtight.
the prosecutor
can ask you questions
right there
in front of the judge.
If that happens for any reason.
we have to be prepared.
How did you know James
would be alone?
When he gets in the
elevator to the loading dock.
you text me and let me know.
It's an allocution under oath.
You cannot lie.
What are you not telling me?
I'm telling you everything.
No. you must have had a cue.
Someone else was there.
Someone told you he was alone.
You gotta be gone by then.
Okay. I will be.
No. nothing like that.
I can't suborn perjury. Tasha.
If you lie and they prove it.
you will go to jail.
and I will lose my license.
If you had an accomplice.
you have to tell me who it is.
They might come forward.
They might expose you.
That won't happen.
How can you be so sure?
Is it your son?
No.
You are my client.
I can't let you lie for Tariq.
I can't let you
go to jail for him.
- Tameika. you're fired.
- What?
Tasha. you will lose your deal.
Get out!
I mean it. Go.
Hello?
Tariq.
this is Tameika Washington.
Hey. Ms. Washington.
What'd they say about my mom?
Did she get a deal?
I don't know what's gonna
happen to your mom.
She just fired me.
Wait. what?
You told me all she had to do
was tell them
exactly what happened.
That's exactly right.
but she won't.
She won't tell the truth.
She is protecting someone.
Tariq.
I think you might know
who it is.
What did she say?
Nothing.
And even if she
told me everything.
our conversations
are privileged.
and I can't say a word
to anyone.
Without me. Tariq. your mom
is in a lot of trouble.
You're gonna need to get her
a good attorney fast.
someone who doesn't need
the truth to win.
What lawyer doesn't need
the truth to win?
Ladies and gentlemen
of the jury. my client...
...Mr. William Ryan.
has been railroaded
by his colleagues.
his board of directors.
and. in fact.
the US Attorney's Office.
He's a scapegoat.
the classic fall guy.
Innocent as the day he was born.
trusting as his parents
raised him to be.
he fell for the oldest trick
in the book.
But instead
of the red-hot shame
of the fool.
his innocence has led him
to the cold. hard steel
of the shackle.
Look at my client.
Does he look like
he needs to steal?
- Davis MacLean?
- Oh. no. no. no. kid.
I'm in a rush.
I got a meeting across town.
I do not have time for pictures.
I don't want a picture.
My mother's on trial
for killing my father.
and I want to hire you.
St. Patrick.
Your James St. Patrick's son.
That was a good picture
of you in The Times
next to his obituary.
Classic African-American family.
you know. except for the wife
with the smoking gun.
My mother's innocent.
Yeah. I'm sure
that's what she told you.
but you should accept the fact
that she's going to jail
and you get to start
your life over again.
Oh.
Don't let your parents
define you.
You can be anything
that you want to be.
and that advice
I'll give you for free.
I said I wanted to hire you.
How much?
- You don't have it.
- How much?
Five hundred K.
liquid. up front.
You get that. we'll talk.
Tariq. we need to start planning
your daddy's funeral.
Tariq.
Tariq. are you all right?
Boy. look at me
when I'm talking to you.
Listen...
I know that you gotta
talk to somebody.
and I know... baby. I know
that you're hurting.
Just talk to me.
Grandma. I have to get back
to school.
I have an oral exam
in the morning.
All right. then just stay
the night. okay?
Because your sister needs you.
You both need me. Grandma!
You guys need me
to finish school
so I can get my inheritance
so I can help you. Ma. and Yas.
Whatever happens with Ma.
Grandma. if you really
want to help me. help me look.
Is this the only place
that Ma kept the books
from the day care?
Yeah. yeah. that's everything.
Why? What are you looking for?
Get the phone.
Hello?
Yes. I'll accept the charges.
Yasmine.
Come here and talk
to your mommy.
Hi. Mommy.
Yeah. actually.
he's here right now.
You want to talk to him?
Tariq?
Your mother.
Hey. Ma.
You okay?
Yeah.
Um. I'm okay. I'm okay. 'Riq.
Grandma. can I speak
to her alone?
I don't understand
why I can't listen
when the guards can.
Ma. why'd you fire Tameika?
- How'd you hear about that?
- She called me.
We need to get you a new lawyer.
No. I'm fine.
I have a public defender.
I'll figure everything out.
Don't worry.
You think any of the parents
from the day care
still need help?
Remember that one lady
you used to tell me about?
She used to come
pick up her son late?
She worked this weird job
at night?
No. listen to me.
Tariq. you don't need to worry
about opening up
the day care again. okay?
What I need
is for you to concentrate
on school. all right?
If you take care of yourself.
you'll take care of all of us.
Tariq. do you hear me?
I need you to promise me
that you'll focus on school.
Yeah. I promise. Ma.
Okay. I love you.
- Jabari...
- Hey. uh. what is this
about another student interview
tomorrow morning?
It showed up on my schedule.
but I thought we were done.
Tariq St. Patrick.
His father
was James St. Patrick.
the candidate
for lieutenant governor.
His mom is on trial
for the murder.
I've been assigned
as his counselor.
He's really motivated
to do the work.
This kid was in high school
two weeks ago.
He was squeezed in by a booster.
He's rich. connected.
He doesn't need us
to bend over backwards for him.
Canonical Studies is closed.
You know. I would have thought
you of all people
would want to help this kid.
Why. because he's Black?
Yes. and because
he can't help having
unique circumstances
getting here.
So what he's not from the hood?
Does that mean he doesn't pass
your blackness litmus test?
So you're telling me
if the same kid came in
with the same story
but he was white. you expect us
to change the rules?
We already have enough
white students in the class.
True. but he's already
a whole week behind.
and this course is rigorous.
and do you think Oliver
is gonna sign off on this?
Well. if we both argue for it.
he won't have a choice.
Don't make this
about you and me.
It's not.
And as you like to say.
there is no you and me.
not anymore.
At least meet him.
Fine.
If he impresses me.
then I will help you
make the argument to Oliver.
but he won't.
Where I know you from?
You used to keep your son
at my mom's day care.
Right. Tasha's place.
That's where I met you.
Ain't you a little young
to be getting in here?
I'm not here for that.
I was wondering
if you was willing
to make some extra money.
Listen. I already told your mama
that the block is hot
around her. okay?
- My mom is in jail right now.
- For real?
But not for drugs.
They think she shot my father.
A bitch
gotta start watching the news.
That's crazy.
Okay. so listen. I owe your
mother. so I'll help you out.
but you gotta find
your own product. okay?
All right. I gotta go
'cause Cinnamon be stealing
all the good body glitter
and shit.
Yo. so my friend's here. people.
So I gotta go. Say hi. 'Riq.
Man. get that shit
out of my face.
'Riq's feeling
camera shy. y'all.
but I'll be back
in the Bray-Den tomorrow.
Stay thirsty. my friends.
Bro. what the fuck
are you doing at Stansfield?
I go here; everyone
in my family goes here.
Check this shit out.
Oh. shit.
Your family built
the auditorium?
And the swimming pool.
My brother's a water polo dude.
He's a douchebag.
Listen. let's not
talk about that shit.
That shit's boring.
You know what we need
to talk about
is how many girls
we're gonna get
now that we're both here!
Crazy ass.
I figure we work
a kind of old-school.
interracial buddy comedy thing.
You know. you're like
Danny Glover...
Black. serious.
And I'm like Mel Gibson
but not drunk.
- You know what I mean?
- Yeah. man. whatever.
I just got a lot of work to do.
Got an entrance exam
for the Canonical Studies
tomorrow. so...
Canonical Studies?
Damn. I wouldn't even
try that shit.
People fail out of that
all the time.
College is supposed
to be fun. bro.
What are you doing?
You are right about that.
But I don't got that much time
to have fun. bro.
Plus. I gotta move soon.
so I'll hit you later.
if anything.
All right.
Listen. I'm really glad
that we're both here together.
you know?
The shit that went down
between you and Effie
was so fucked up.
and I was really hoping
that we would connect again
and be bros. you know?
About Effie. you still happen
to have her number?
She got into Yale. man.
So you came
all the way down here.
You must really need
this product or something.
Or maybe you just wanted
to see me.
I need the product.
Yeah. I deserve that.
Are you okay. though?
I heard about your parents.
Look. if you need someone
to talk to. Tariq.
I'm here.
and I'll listen to you.
Now. why the fuck
should I trust you. huh?
You ruined my whole life. Effie.
You ain't need to move pills
at Choate.
That was a hobby to you.
I couldn't even buy books.
I had to take out
the competition.
It wasn't personal. okay?
It was just business.
So you were just playing me
this whole time. huh?
All of that?
Not the part
about liking you. okay?
That was real.
So you're not gonna
pay me for that?
It's nothing personal. Effie.
It's just business.
Tariq. there you are.
I'm so sorry I'm late.
Professor Milgram.
Tariq St. Patrick.
Jabari Reynolds.
I'm Oliver Simmons. Tariq.
Professor Milgram told us
all about you.
She didn't forecast
you'd be late. of course.
I apologize.
Well. let's begin.
Uh. please take a seat.
Well. first of all.
did you enjoy the book?
You know. I don't think he
wrote the book to be enjoyed.
Uh. what do you mean?
Well. it wasn't written
in that way.
Because the main character
was sort of bored.
I feel Camus wanted us
to be bored as well.
What'd you think of the end?
That certainly isn't boring.
What-what-what part. sir?
When he attacks the priest.
Professor Milgram. don't help.
All right.
I didn't finish the book.
Uh. thanks for telling
the truth. I suppose.
But honestly. I don't really
relate to the main character.
He shoots someone for no reason.
and we're supposed to be
sympathetic to that?
And we're supposed
to relate to that?
I mean. I don't.
He has his reasons. of course.
but the book
doesn't give it to us.
I think you missed the point.
It's hard to get the point
if you don't finish the book.
Amen to that.
I'm sorry
I didn't finish the book.
Hey. I want to do this work.
and I want to be challenged
in this way.
I want to make you guys proud.
I just... I just didn't
have enough time.
Well. that was a waste of time.
Professor Milgram. next time
you feel the need for charity.
maybe you should donate
to the Red Cross.
Hey. Oliver. look. I didn't say
I was off this kid entirely.
You're not?
It takes a lot of balls
to come in here and say
you didn't like the book
we asked you to read.
Balls are not what I look for
in a student.
No. but maybe you should.
We want to teach new thinkers.
passionate thinkers.
the greatest minds
of our next generation.
- That was a great mind to you?
- Well. it could be.
He has been through
extensive trauma in his life
and in the last month.
and he's still here.
and he still read the book.
He didn't finish the book!
Okay. fair.
but he got it 24 hours ago.
His mother is on trial
for his father's murder.
I don't know what else
he had to do yesterday.
Do you?
I think we should give him
another shot.
Ms. Green.
I am so sorry I'm late.
I have a lot of other clients.
My name is Dana Patterson.
I'm your public defender.
Can you get me the same deal
Tameika did?
What deal was that?
It's not mentioned here
in your paperwork.
Funny thing about that deal.
It went out the window
along with your story
about you being the shooter.
Forensics just came back.
Whoever shot your husband was
between 5'11 " and 6'2" tall.
So unless you were standing
on a ladder.
Ms. Green.
you didn't pull the trigger.
Okay. so if you know my client
didn't kill her husband.
why is she still in here?
Quinton Wallace...
We know Tasha set him up
to take the fall
for this murder.
Accessory after the fact. okay.
No. Dana. she started
that plan in motion
while James St. Patrick
was still alive.
so it's conspiracy one.
plus aiding and abetting.
plus the gun possession charge.
which is all we'll charge
if she gives us the name
of the shooter.
What kind of time?
She can plead on conspiracy.
15 years.
What?
If you don't give us
the name of the shooter
and we do go to trial.
we can charge you with murder.
Just give me the name.
You already lied to me once.
Ms. Green.
Don't do it again.
I think you should cooperate.
Andre Coleman.
He wanted my husband dead.
He said he would help me.
It was his gun.
I'll check out
your Coleman story. Ms. Green.
Dana. we'll be in touch.
Okay. Jenny. Love the dress.
Okay. um...
I know ten to 15 years
sounds like a lot.
but it's not gonna get better
than this. I promise.
Why did you fire
Tameika Washington. by the way?
I hear she's really good.
Sorry. I just
need you to sign...
So sorry. I am j...
I am having a day.
John. what the fuck
you doing here?
Who's this guy?
Well. we're hearing
some disturbing news
about the James St. Patrick
case.
I thought it was federal.
but I heard you kicked it
over to the locals.
Excuse me. sir.
I don't know who you are.
but I'm not sure we should be
discussing prosecutorial
discretion in front of you.
I'm Steven Ott. DNC.
and I was a prosecutor
for 15 years
before I left to work
for the party.
so I think I can keep up.
Yeah. doesn't explain what
you're doing here in my office.
It's important
to the Democratic Party
that certain details
about James St. Patrick's life
not come out in court.
I don't know
what that has to do with me.
Well. Tasha's using a
justification defense. Cooper.
She's saying
that James St. Patrick
was a drug-dealing
homicidal monster.
Yeah. he was.
Yeah. well.
we see it differently.
Okay.
You-you know.
I-I'm-I'm-I'm sorry. John.
What game are we playing here?
Well. Steven and I.
we have an idea.
We'd like you to charge
Tasha St. Patrick
under the Kingpin Statute.
Well. Queenpin in this case.
I guess.
We got a friendly judge
to sign over an arrest warrant.
For what?
For running
St. Patrick's organization.
Drug trafficking. murder.
assaults. the whole thing.
I mean. you wanted to build
a RICO. there it is.
St. Patrick's murder
is the predicate crime
that can open this whole thing
right up.
You say she was silencing
the ex-husband as a witness.
You could hang
the whole thing on her.
But she isn't the head
of this organization.
She knew what he was doing.
She's an accomplice.
But she was never the boss.
Gentlemen. I'd love
to help you. but I can't.
St. Patrick roughed Tasha up
the night before she shot him.
I saw the bruises myself.
It's a local case. a domestic.
I gotta let the DA handle it.
Huh.
Okay.
You know you owe me.
Mr. US Attorney.
Yeah. you think
about that. okay?
I got you this job.
and I can take it away.
- Oh. shit.
- You ain't lock it?
Yo. my bad. My bad. bro.
Hey. you my new roommate. Tariq?
Yeah. I am. but I can come back
if you need me to.
- I'll be done in a minute.
- You better not be.
Can he leave. please?
Hey. uh...
Hey. give me 15 minutes.
Got you.
Oh. God.
Oh. look at that.
- Beautiful. Mom. as usual.
- It's Nancy's favorite.
Mom. I am the US Attorney
for the Eastern District now.
I was hoping we'd stop
with that idiotic nickname.
- No way.
- It's not gonna happen.
I don't even remember
what your real name is.
to be honest. Nancy.
Jesus. if Claire were here.
she would say something
on my behalf.
Oh. you mean
your favorite sister?
Well. I'll do it.
Guys. we should all honor
Cooper's pronouns
of he. him. and his
and that he identifies
as a cis heterosexual male
and that using
a traditionally feminine name
could be viewed
as an intentional assault
on his gender identity.
That's exactly
what she would have said.
That was good.
All right. kids.
leave your brother alone.
You've made it
through a hard year. Coop.
and we're all proud of you.
Before we eat.
let's raise a glass
to your brother.
US Attorney Cooper Andrew Saxe.
returning the family name
to public service.
To Coop.
To Nancy.
I am proud of you boys.
You're both doing so well.
Good night.
Night. Dad.
Actually...
...our general counsel is gonna
retire in a few months.
You should take the job
at our fund. Nancy.
Fuck you.
I just got a new job.
or did you forget
the entire purpose
of this evening?
Oh. no. I didn't forget.
It's just... US Attorney?
Ooh. it's a lot of pressure.
And historically. you don't
do well under pressure.
You and I both know
you're gonna screw this up.
but this time. Dad's emotions
are all involved.
You heard him.
a return to service.
But you've probably
already made the bonehead move
that's gonna get you fired.
embarrass Mom and Dad.
and ruin the family name.
I should punch you
in your smug. bullshit face.
You're my little brother.
I do not need you
to give me a job.
Not yet.
You been to Queens before?
Yeah. I used to come out here
a lot. actually.
What's this party for?
My family congratulating me
on Stansfield.
I know you're gonna
help me stay there.
so they wanted to meet you.
I gotta do this report
on Moby-Dick.
Man. the book is mad long.
Man. you ain't never read
Moby-Dick before?
Every school I've been to
had me read that shit.
The schools I been to
ain't want me to read.
Damn. so you grew up over here?
I grew up in the South.
came up for high school.
This is my Aunt Monet's house.
Her kids are my cousins
but more like
my brothers and a sister.
You know how it is.
I ain't got
that much family. bro.
I got too much sometimes.
You'll see.
This is my boy Tariq.
Show him some love!
What up. Tariq?
What up? What up? What up?
Okay. okay. okay.
"Congratulations. Zeke." Okay.
Aw. man. y'all are crazy.
Look at that drip.
All right. Y'all funny.
What you think?
Man. this shit is crazy.
This ain't even big.
The real fun is in the backyard.
Come on.
Hold up.
where's your bathroom at?
Oh. uh.
near the. um. front door.
where we came in at.
- A'ight. excuse me.
- What's up. baby?
Aw. shit. girl.
Hey!
What up? What up? What up?
What's good?
Yo. Tariq.
this is my cousin Dru.
Yo. what up. bro?
So I ain't gonna lie.
The bathroom
was kind of occupied.
I think it's gonna be
a little minute.
There's another one
in the basement.
Hey. but before you go.
I want you to meet somebody.
Diana!
What's up. Rel?
What you doing here?
This is my cousin Diana Tejada.
This is my boy Tariq.
We go to Stansfield together.
Hey.
What's up? How are you?
I'm great.
I just seen him in the bathroom
with some girl.
Yeah. that's my brother Cane.
and it's probably the girl
that nigga Rel is looking for.
- Damn.
- Hey. yo.
- Where my girl at?
- Aw. shit.
Why you asking me
about your bitch?
What? You...
Oh. her?
Come on. bitch.
There goes the party.
- This my house. bitch.
- Hey. back. back. nigga!
Is you stupid? Is you dumb?
- Nigga. is you stupid?
- Yo. I will fuck you up.
What the fuck is going on
out here?
Back up. back up. back up.
Damn. that's Monet.
Get inside. Zeke.
- Auntie Monet.
- Cane can handle himself.
And you're too valuable
to the family.
Go ahead.
This'll be squashed in a minute.
Get the fuck out of my crib.
Oh. but your bitch.
yeah. she can stay. though.
Hey. yo. let's go.
I'm staying.
Get the fuck out of here. man.
Get your punk ass out of here.
Bye. Rel.
He'll be back.
Yeah. he just gonna
go get something.
You know what to do.
So tell me about Stansfield.
You're not worried about nothing
that's going on right now?
Nah. it's just
another night out here
with this family. trust me.
What does he tell you
about us anyway?
Nothing like this.
So your mom's Monet.
and your father is...
Lorenzo Tejada.
We're Black and Puerto Rican.
Hmm. How many of you are there?
Just the three of us.
It's me. Cane. and Dru.
With Zeke here.
it was all boys and me.
So where's your father at?
- He's inside.
- Hmm.
Yeah. my mom's inside too.
What's he in there for?
What you think?
Hmm.
Who is this?
- That's me.
- I knew she looked familiar.
Cane. get out here!
Damn. I knew that nigga
would be back.
Cane. I'm talking
to you. motherfucker!
Rel. you better
get your ass out of here.
You don't want no trouble.
Cane. stop hiding
behind your mama!
Rel. you need to go home now.
Cane need to come out here.
He can't hide
behind you no more.
He ain't hiding;
he's standing right there
about to blow
your motherfucking head off.
Go home. Rel.
Everything okay here?
Everything's good.
I handled it.
That's your girlfriend?
No. I don't got a girlfriend.
But I gotta go.
Tell Zeke I'll see him
back at the dorm. a'ight?
A'ight.
Cooper. I can't talk to you
about the St. Patrick case.
You know better.
But Tasha's not
your client anymore.
Privilege still holds.
Okay. then. uh...
let me present you
with a hypothetical. okay?
Mm-hmm.
What if you had a-a witness
who. uh. saw your client...
Uh. a public official.
let's say...
At the scene of a murder?
This murder?
With a handgun.
Saxe.
What the fuck did you do?
Nothing. it's a hypothetical.
Bullshit.
I saw you that night
you found out
you were going to jail.
Did you go to Truth after that?
With a weapon?
Whatever witness this is
has you by the balls.
Is that why you asked me
to take Tasha's case?
Cooper. what the fuck
did you get me into?
It's a fucking hypothetical.
Then hypothetically.
you are fucked.
I am on the thinnest
ethical line here. Cooper.
Tasha is going to be
under tremendous pressure
to name a second person
involved
in her husband's murder.
If she names you.
can you prove you're innocent.
if indeed you are innocent?
Come on. Tameika.
I didn't kill him.
I hope not. for both our sakes.
You are not my client.
This conversation
isn't privileged.
You understand that. right?
If I get subpoenaed.
I'd have to testify
to what you just said.
Eh. you don't have to.
Get out.
This conversation
never happened. Saxe.
- You were never here.
- I need your help.
- I don't know you.
- Tameika. please.
I don't know you!
You know I'm gonna take
all of your money. honey.
- Oh.
- Every little bit.
Oh. you're welcome to it. baby.
- Mm-hmm.
- Do you take credit cards?
- Credit cards?
- Um. I have this one.
It's just for emergencies only.
My mom gave it to me.
but I don't think
she's gonna mind. to be honest.
- Mommy?
- Yeah.
No. no. no.
I take Bitcoin. baby.
So all you have to do
is stick it in the right slot.
Okay. my bad. I'm sorry.
Yo. make sure you get
as much as you can. all right?
I always do.
And hit me on this
tomorrow morning.
My number's already locked in.
- All right.
- A'ight.
Hold that. bitch-ass nigga.
I got you. bro.
Nigga.
I been to the gym already...
...and gotta be back
in two hours for practice.
Is you sure you can handle
my classes too?
Because that white-whale shit
is due at the end of the week.
Bro. don't worry.
I got you. a'ight?
Okay. man.
I guess you know
what you're doing.
Just make sure it sounds
like I did it.
Oh. yeah.
good looks on last night.
My Aunt Monet.
she really likes you.
Hey. hey. Hello. stranger.
Ah. should've gotten that
restraining order after all.
I'm not here for a social visit.
- Thank God.
- Hey. take it easy.
I want to know how
the St. Patrick case is going.
It's going pretty well.
actually.
once Tameika Washington
came off the case.
Had Tasha Green
about to take a plea.
What do you mean? What happened?
I'm surprised you hit me up.
I thought the girls
usually let the guys do that.
Mm. wow. Look who's on himself.
I hit you because
Professor Milgram asked me to.
She said you were having
a rough time
the other day with The Stranger.
but they're willing
to give you another shot.
She said you hadn't even
finished the book.
I finished it last night.
actually.
I got it. I don't need help.
I figured you'd say that.
Look. Tariq. I-I can't imagine
what you're going through...
Don't even go there.
It's just. like.
the most boring book ever.
He shoots a guy in cold blood.
and somehow
it's like you miss it.
That's the point.
Meursault doesn't even know
what's happening.
He doesn't make a real decision
to kill someone.
- He just does it.
- That's bullshit.
Killing someone is always
a real decision.
Even carrying a gun
is a real decision.
He doesn't want to own up to it.
and he's just mad
that people hate him for it.
But people will always
hate you for what you do.
You can't care about that.
But in the end. he's killed
because people didn't like
how he reacted
to his mother's death.
People didn't like him
because he shot the guy.
He was killed because
he committed a murder.
He knew what he was doing.
He knew the consequences.
He still pulled that trigger.
He did it anyway.
You should tell them that...
That you see it that way
and also what you said
about killing is a choice.
I don't think
they want to hear that.
They're gonna think
they're seeing the real you.
That's what they want.
I'm going to the bathroom.
I'll be back.
Your mom's supposed
to be out by now.
What the fuck is going on?
The DA said
they're taking her to trial.
I'm trying to get her
a new lawyer right now.
and you're supposed
to be helping her.
What? I-I already helped.
Your mother was supposed
to take that sweet-ass deal
that Tameika and I got for her.
Wait. so that deal was you?
Why do you think Tameika
took the case?
I signed a waiver so that
she could represent your mom.
It was handled.
So let's just get Tameika back.
I have money.
It's not about money.
Tameika's not gonna
suborn perjury.
Your mother lied twice.
First she left out
that she had an accomplice.
Someone else
pulled that trigger.
Damn.
Do you know who it was?
Tasha told ADA Sullivan
that Andre Coleman
killed your father.
Lie number two.
- Wasn't it his gun?
- It was.
But we still had the clothes
he wore that night.
No GSR.
Andre Coleman
didn't shoot anyone
20 minutes before his arrest.
Even if we wanted to blame him.
now we can't.
Wait. you-you-you told me
it was Dre too.
That's what my mother told me.
Tariq...
if you know
who your mother's protecting.
you tell me.
Look. man. I don't know. a'ight?
But you know my mother
didn't shoot anyone.
You know she's innocent.
So if you don't fix this.
I'm gonna have to tell the cops
that I saw you at Truth.
- I don't have a choice.
- Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
You-you don't have to tell
anyone anything about me.
We can still save your mom.
I can still push Sullivan
to take a deal.
but Tasha has to name
the shooter.
If she does that
and I can confirm it.
I can get her out.
We can all walk away
from this. Tariq.
Just get your mom
to tell the truth.
Oh. yeah.
Oh. yeah. just put that shit
in your ass. dog.
I'm not playing
this game anymore.
I quit.
Yo. Zeke. I need to borrow
your phone. bro.
The fuck you need
to borrow my phone for?
I'm trying to make
an Instagram Live
or whatever the fuck
it's called.
- I don't got an account.
- Oh. dude. just use mine.
You know I'm always ready to go.
Now. you know Zeke got
more followers than you. bro.
That's hurtful.
I'm just gonna say it.
You'll be a'ight.
But. yo. I need to do
something. bro.
It's for my mom.
I got you.
Good looking. bro.
Hey. what's up. guys?
I don't really do the
social media stuff like that.
I don't like it.
but I need to take the time out
to tell everyone
how grateful I am
that the famous Davis MacLean
has agreed to take
my mother's case.
We're a Black family in need.
and he heard us.
He showed up. Thank you.
Most people look
at The Stranger as an exposure
of how other people's opinions
can shape our destinies.
Most people think
that if Meursault
would have visibly mourned
his mother
and then expressed that emotion.
then he wouldn't
have been put to death.
He would've just died
by bad press.
But Meursault.
he took those actions.
You know. every single action
along the way was his.
All those decisions were his.
even the decision
to pull the trigger.
Meursault. he was...
he was different.
He was a killer.
He was alienated.
He was special.
Maybe too special to live
by everyone else's rules.
Because of that difference.
he couldn't survive.
But. you know.
that doesn't mean Meursault
was the one who was wrong.
Most people survive
by trying to live up
to others' opinions
and court the public favor.
You know. I think to do that is
to die while you're still here.
Meursault went out
on his own terms.
He didn't bend
to a prosecutor or the priest.
He controlled his own destiny.
Son of a bitch.
Hello.
Where do you want to meet?
Meet me at the chapel in 15.
You forced my hand.
This'll buy you the week.
until I can find you
other counsel
without attracting
public attention.
All I need is the week.
We official now?
Yes.
Can I trust you?
You gotta trust someone. kid.
Seems like I'm all you got.
A'ight. well. the DA knows
my mother didn't shoot
my father.
Then why would they hit her
with a full murder charge?
That doesn't make sense.
'Cause she lied to them
about having an accomplice.
She lied to them
about who it was.
She was protecting him
because he shot my father
trying to protect her.
They said she could get a deal
if she tells them
the whole truth.
Tariq. for a criminal defendant.
the truth rarely sets you free.
Doesn't matter
what the DA told her.
A'ight. well. tell my mom I said
that she needs to come home.
A'ight.
she doesn't deserve this.
She's innocent.
I know she's afraid
to say his real name. but...
I'm not afraid anymore.
Tell my mom
I said if she loves me.
then she should tell the truth.
Tariq really got you here.
You raised that kid?
I don't know
whether to congratulate you
or have you brought up
on charges by Child Services.
Okay. ADA Sullivan
is offering you
the deal of the century.
Obstructing governmental
administration. second degree.
and tampering
with physical evidence.
Three years' probation.
you allocute. you go home.
That's the same deal
Tameika got me.
Exactly.
But this time. you have
to tell the whole truth.
If they can't verify your story.
you go on trial for murder.
It was Andre Coleman.
It was not Andre Coleman.
There was no GSR on Coleman's
clothing from that night.
He's not the shooter.
And you wouldn't frame
Quinton Wallace
to protect Coleman.
Look. you may be the first
client I've ever said this to.
including my own brother.
but you need to tell the truth.
right now to me
and tomorrow in court.
I saw your son
before I got here.
He wanted me
to tell you something.
Well. what did he say?
He said you don't deserve this.
that you're innocent.
He said you need to come home.
That boy loves his mother.
I'm not surprised he said that.
Oh. I wasn't either.
But then he said something else.
He said he knew
that you were afraid
to say the name of the person
who shot your husband.
but he's not afraid
for you to say it.
He said if you love him.
you need to tell the truth.
Are you sure
that's what he said?
That's what he said.
And you don't have a choice.
All rise.
The Honorable Judge
Janine Galanti presiding.
Ms. Sullivan. I hear we have
reached an agreement
with the defense.
That's correct. Your Honor.
In exchange for the name
of her accomplice.
the People have agreed
to obstructing
governmental administration.
second degree.
and tampering
with physical evidence.
Three years' probation.
Ms. St. Patrick. are you ready?
Yes. Your Honor.
When I was charged
with this crime.
I told the police
and Ms. Sullivan
that I pulled the trigger.
but that wasn't true.
Someone else killed James.
and they gave me the gun
to frame Quinton.
He said that we would both
walk away. but he was wrong.
I'm sorry. Ms. Sullivan.
I was simply trying to hide
the identity of my accomplice
because I was afraid.
Your Honor.
I was afraid of what might
happen to my family
if I told the truth.
The man who killed
James St. Patrick...
...is Tommy Egan.
RICO. I told you.
They silenced St. Patrick to
keep him from turning witness.
What? I told you no.
No.
Your Honor.
may the People inquire?
Your Honor. my client
held up her end of the deal.
I don't know what else
the DA might need to ask.
- One question.
- Proceed.
I find it hard to believe
that James St. Patrick's
lifelong best friend would
kill him. Mrs. St. Patrick.
Why on earth would Tommy Egan
have killed your husband?
- Because I asked him to.
- Your Honor. I object.
- No. you're not gonna do that.
- Objection overruled.
Queenpin.
Are the People satisfied?
Now. you go in there.
and you make me proud.
Mr. Saxe. are you addressing
the court?
Uh. uh. no. Your Honor.
She will.
Sorry.
Your Honor. the People move
to drop all charges
against Tasha Green St. Patrick.
- What?
- Your Honor. we have
- an executed plea agreement.
- Not anymore.
- What does she mean?
- Your Honor.
Motion granted.
I hope you know what
you're doing. Ms. Sullivan.
Tasha St. Patrick.
you're under arrest
for the murder
of James St. Patrick
under the federal
Continuing Criminal Enterprise
Kingpin Statute.
Ma! No! Ma!
Ma!
Kingpin? What the fuck?
You know I wasn't running shit.
you motherfucker.
Stay strong. We're gonna
fight this together.
What kind of headline-grabbing
bullshit is this?
Kingpin Statute?
You're gonna give her
the needle?
You and I both know
this is not a federal case.
It is now.
What don't I know
about your mother?
- Hmm?
- Tariq. what have you done?
Listen. I had to be the one
to do it. Ma; I had to.
I'll say it was me.
Take the gun out back
and dump it. all right?
I know what to do.
What have you just
gotten me into. kid?
We take care
of each other. right?
Right.
I got you into the biggest
case of your career.
Look. my mom is innocent.
Saxe has an agenda.
The publicity
on this case is huge.
and you're
right under the spotlight.
Look. if you win...
When you win...
We can take down Saxe
and blow up
the whole entire
US Attorney's Office.
Once you do that.
you'll be known
as the most powerful criminal
defense attorney in New York.
You owe me $450.000. kid.
You paid for the appetizer.
but we're about to get
into the full meal.
Welcome home. bitch.
Subtitles Diego Moraes(oakislandtk)
www.opensubtitles.org